all right we have CRD tees otherwise
known as conflict-free replicated data
types so we have we'd get the memo about
one posters we have four first we will
compare CRE cheese to regular TVs so the
0dt don't have a master right
so instead of what objective view at the
database you have like some people's
subjectivity is like these different
little notes hanging out in period of
your space and instead of having a table
o'clock you have more like relative
ordering and maybe like vector clocks to
keep track of things
so some use cases we have ipfs cluster
configuration we have mobile databases
we have offline apps maybe you're out
doing field research you know you can't
sync up for what CRT T is super useful
you have like little drones or like IOT
devices communicating with something
some other computer somewhere ok so more
types of CRT T's so we have two main
types you have operation based which are
commutative all the changes just get
added up may get state-based which are
convergence the change is kind of I come
together after a while and one main
thing here is keeping track of order
without dependable timestamp so that's
what we have this relative ordering will
show an example in a minute and then
here's some implementation examples
Merkel CR DT used in I campus cluster
pure base used in pure pad and pure Maps
which is a spatial trees here DT used in
like an offline backing up okay
so this is a very messy diagram of a
simple example here you have like three
databases normal databases with a bunch
of user is liking things and they passed
the sum of all the likes to this
front-end thing and then this runand
computer asthma and so that adding up is
the merging the states part so that
would be a grow counter and so here we
have a use case in like a text editor
the collaborative text editor which is
another cool use case okay so anyways
that's all
ERD tea tree
[Applause]